---
num: "h07"
desc: "Arrays"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-11-09 2:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-11-16 2:00:00.00-7:00
pdf: "http://cs.ucsb.edu/~zmatni/cs16s17/hwk/h07.pdf"
---
<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL!</b>

1.(10 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there is an error that will not allow an output, point it out.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int arr[5];
for (int i = 0; i <= 10; i++) 
{
	if (i < 3) 
        arr[i] = 'a';
	else 
        arr[i] = 'z';
	cout << arr[i] << endl;  
}
```
</div>

2.(10 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there is an error that will not allow an output, point it out.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int arr[7] = {5};
for (int i = 0; i < 7; i++)
	cout << arr[i] + i << endl; 
```
</div>

3.(10 pts) What is the output of the following code? If there is an error that will not allow an output, point it out.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int codes[] = {44, 66, 83, 973, -977};
for (int count : codes) 
{
	if ( (count/2) < 50 )
		cout << count << endl;
	else 
        cout << "invalid" << endl; 
}
```
</div>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

4.(20 pts) Using the same formula from Lab 6, write a program that finds the standard deviation of the contents of this array of doubles:<br/><b>nums[7] = {1.0, 3.2, 4.0, 4.0, 5.5, 9.0, 9.1}</b>. In other words, instead of reading the numbers from a file, read the numbers from the array.

Give your answer in fixed point notation with 4 places after the decimal point showing. Print out your program and staple it to this homework.
<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>

5.(20 pts) Write a program that takes 10 integer inputs from the user via keyboard and puts them in one array called `myNums[]`, then prints them back out one at a time in this format: `Number 1: 55`, and finally, computes the sum of these numbers and displays that in this format: `Total sum: 922`.

<b>Condition:</b> The printing of the numbers and the calculation/printing of the sum MUST BE done with 2 functions, respectively, in which you pass the entire `myNums` array. Print out your program and staple it to this homework.

6.(30 pts) Write a C++ program that creates a 2-dimensional array of 10x5 elements that are populated by random numbers between 0 and 49 (hint: use the `rand()` function and re-use code from the multi-dimensional array demonstration in class). The program should then ask the user for a number between 0 and 49 and searches the array for that number. If it finds it, it returns both indicies of the 2-D array, otherwise, it returns a message that says "I did not find this number." Re-run your
program multiple times to make sure that it works (it should show you different answers each time). Print out your program and staple it to this homework.
<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>

